[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef welcome back
to the BBC good food podcast I have with
me Tom and Rosie and I am delighted to
announce it's Christmas
yay could you tell because I'm dressed
as Santa
now Tom do you watch the Queen on
Christmas Day no I mean not no because
I'd like know just because I'm normally
up to my is still cooking or in the
washing up or like it does you're at
home well I'm either at my I'm I'm at
someone's home but I'm a chef so I end
up doing the cooking and it's not for
any other reason platform I love it and
also it's always surrounded by family
it's always so family and friend this
year I think there was last year there
was 14 of us 14 maybe 16 at my house so
that was a bit a bit big undertaking
yeah well even if I'm at the in-laws I'm
doing the cooking and there's still so a
big family like there's a lot of people
and I love it and I think you know it is
absolutely so no way don't get to watch
Queen but no way don't also get to watch
that afternoon movie and no I don't get
to like there's nothing like I am up to
my eyeballs in food but I'm loving every
minute and does your boy help you little
man is pretty good um no I think he's
very good normally all the time at
making doing food Christmas is the one
period of the year so his birthday's
actually on the 21st of December so he
has like two weeks solid of pretty much
everyone giving him a present
so Easter so opens all his message out
isn't he he's just toyed and stuff and
things and bright lights and noises and
things just like this is just the best
he's
disciples and presents like food I am
bothered toys racing cars bikes stuff
things things that go bang noise just I
like it but it's amazing that's what
Christmas is about in it is surely it's
about kids having a brilliant time and
adults being surrounded by food and it's
just it's just great I love it and Rosie
where will you be I will probably be at
home with my mum and hopefully with my
in-laws and I mean I'd love it if my
sister my little nephew came and yeah
just I'll be cooking as well I'll be
cooking in tandem with my mum it'll beat
my mum will be back what I call backseat
cooking so she'll be sitting there
holding court at the table with a gin
and tonic and a glass of wine probably
and she'll be just checking that I'm
doing it all according to her
instructions and what's on the menu
turkey every time I I just I really I
only cook it at Christmas and I really
love a really good Turkey
yeah and Tommy you bit turkey turkey
hundred-percent
like I mean you go from like everyone
expects you chefs or people in the
foodie world to be doing all will be to
Goose or will do an amazing four rib of
beef or would know is turkey turkey
would away turkey is luck I can
especially a turkey that's being reared
for six months and well looked after and
beautiful like it's amazing just cook it
properly and you get the most incredible
delicious flavor and the reason why it's
always Turkey is because turkey is the
best cold meat as well so Boxing Day it
may lose it so you get double turkey it
Sam it's just fantastic it is the
perfect thing because it serves as many
people as you want it to it sits there
peacefully in the oven while you're
getting everything else ready or opening
your presents or doing the other things
and you get all those marvelous
leftovers so people knock it but I think
that's a great shape it's got such great
flavor and you get what I love is the
combination of the breast meat which is
so lovely and buttery and juicy and
succulent and then you've got the dark
meat which has that slightly more gamey
flavor and is kind of more interesting
and you can have bit of both on your
plate and then all the stuffings and the
trimmings it's heaven I love Christmas
do you serve a first course or anything
Rose you're go straight in yeah
but we do something very simple so we we
we alternate years sometimes we do a
really really good smoked salmon just
very simply with some very lovely ripe
avocado and a little bit of baby germ or
something very very simple keep it
simple because as we know we've got so
much to do on Christmas Day and then my
my actual favorite thing that we do is
an English muffin cut in half and
toasted and then potted shrimps so we
make a spiced butter with mace Kay and
pepper a little bit of lemon juice and
then brown shrimp just warmed through in
the melted butter and then spooned onto
these toasted English muffins and that
is gourmet household isn't it no we used
to but then it always got like it's
ridiculous it gets too much because like
because there's always loads of us so
Beth comes from its big old family and
so there's always a load of us and you
think by the so everything we took we
know I don't do a plated so at Christmas
lunch I do family style so you put the
sprouts you put everything goes in
similar table then anyone helps
themselves so but the problem with
helping yourselves you you just keep
going don't you when it's there and you
go and by the time you've gone like by
the time you've had a starter and then
you've had loads of that that Christmas
Day feeling it so you ain't gonna get to
dessert so everybody we'd rather have
put in on Christmas Day than a starter
that you is always pretty much gonna be
like smoked salmon or something go do
you know what will swear of that we
might have a late breakfast on Christmas
Day morning maybe like eggs on toast or
something super good bacon sandwiches
then a really good the turkey lunch then
Christmas put in and whatever else we
got do for the Christmas pudding haters
what whoever those people are what's
wrong with them like they definitely
exist they exist there's a lot of them
they normally read my eye so I gotta be
honest and then and then you kind of
like just settle into the rest evening
and there may be some cheese later on
that's it's but well I'd rather skip
that and make sure that you never
Christmas put what time do you end up
eating normally we're really Ferris last
year
7:00 in the evening I went for an e we
went for an evening one which was
certain men that people could travel
from over the country and come to us
they could have pizza because I Rosie
like we had this discussion just briefly
a bit and you want to avoid family
feud's arguments and all sorts of bits
and bobs and you go well for example my
brother who is married and lives in
Gloucester they you know their lifetime
but there is his in-laws and cousins and
whatever and then come to us for the
evening ordinary is the turkey dinner
with them before coming on to your
turkey dinner my brother death no
veggies though just say just any excuse
to get four helpings of roast potatoes
that's what I went for I went for
evening last year this year who knows
what we'll do who knows and what time do
you eat I like to do it between 2:00 and
4:00 I just like 3:00 then somewhere
between late afternoon a late lunch is
always good because then it gives we
have to have a bacon sandwich that's how
we start that's how we start Christmas
Day in the Burkett household and yeah
now it's a now it's a family tradition
so bacon sandwich and a glass of
champagne that's the first thing we have
and then it's cooking all morning
drinking more I would say the starters
does take the heat off slightly like
with people getting hungry so the
starters and then the and then the
Christmas lunch around 3:00 3:30 3:45 um
yeah there can be outbreaks of hostility
I have found when there's plenty to
drink and people getting hungry that's
why you need a bacon sandwich yeah yeah
and do you have helped us in the kitchen
you said your mother is about is in the
back seat there giving advice my mum's
driving it all right let's not let's be
clear she's definitely driving it
and yeah my husband is like so helpful
because if I have had that experience of
being your own on your own in the
kitchen when you're doing doing this
whole thing and everyone else having a
marvelous time and you feel a bit lonely
left out I are like slaving I'm actually
quite lucky
quite like being on my own and doing it
I do I don't know if you get this but
when people are just coming in
constantly and going what can I do
what can I do how can I help how can I
help and it's like you've you've got it
and you're on top of it and you're doing
it and it's quite hard sometimes to
field all the questions yeah when you
were trying to make I do you find that
song like but it's Mike it's Mike it's
been my job for nearly 30 years and it's
all about structure and organization the
whole week before I've got it unboxed
off I know what I'm doing I know the
systems I clean as I'm wash up as I go
along they'll get in this don't ruin the
system don't stand there like don't you
have to why don't you just going out
yourself to never gin-and-tonic watch a
really rubbish movie sit down have a
chat eat some nuts do whatever mike is
no bother I've like I got this cooking
thing sorted it's all right it's my job
I know what I'm doing with it at least I
get I like it on my own in there
although I'm quite lucky we've got quite
a big kitchen so it does become an area
where people hang out so it is nice it's
a nice it's a nice Christmas space to be
in but just just don't touch the food
until it's ready the ideal is having
people milling around having people
pouring you drinks having people to talk
to and having people to delegate to so
if I need something doing I'm gonna ask
you and stop ac chasing after the dog on
the motorbike that's a good thing to do
let me do the turkey all right that's
the way that we want to do it sounds
like you very much have this Christmas
under control now Rosie what's your very
favorite bit of the Christmas Christmas
meal to eat the one the one mouthful
that you can have the whole Christmas
meal the actual Christmas lunch because
turkey we're gonna get on to turkey
sandwiches and that's a whole other
thing yeah we'd have to do it oh gosh we
need another podcast for the turkey
leftovers well with the meal itself is
just that first fork full of Turk a
little bit of Turkey a little bit of
stuffing a little bit potato a little
bit of carrot and gravy a little bit of
gravy
yeah
see the gravy just that first vote full
of a little bit of everything little
bacon roll on there yeah delicious but I
bet you a gravy over everything girls
yes not over the meat because some is
gonna meet as well some people have it
just on the meat just on the believe
that gravely belongs to me who are those
people sprites over everything and my
trick is for roast potato is just a
little trick and cut them open so that
you expose that lovely pearlescent
interior and then give them a little cut
and then pour the gravy on because then
the gravy gets into the potato mm-hmm
gonna try that and Tom what's your very
favorite mouthful of that meal it has to
be pigs in blankets like I mean I mean
who doesn't love a sausage wrapped in
bacon I mean I reckon they could be
turned into sausage wrapped in bacon I
mean that for me is Christmas Day all
over that is something because you when
else when else do you ever eat pigs in
blankets that is Christmas Day do you
know they have hot cross buns on sale
all year round now or you can probably
get pinks in blankets on set on sale all
year round now I mean it it wrecks these
things if they don't keep them special
that's it with us that's the thing it
makes you feel super special on
Christmas today a pig dick pigs in
blankets lovely with a bit of bread
sauce or bread so delicious yeah now we
asked on social media what people's
worst bitter the Christmas meal was and
we thought they were all gonna say
sprouts but it wasn't sprouts at all and
it was indeed as you said Tom Christmas
pudding yeah there are a lot of
Christmas pudding haters out there is
that because they've never met the right
Christmas pudding no I absolutely love
it I think Christmas pudding is
fantastic but he's a very big strong
powerful flavor and it isn't like any
other pudding that you eat any of the
rest of the year puddings are normally
fruity meringue G sweetie
chocolaty caramely kind of mushy oh yes
and that's the sort of put is that we
all associate with them maybe every now
and then you might have some lemon tarts
and then but not very often
do you go you might have a bit of a
sting trick or put in at some point but
Christmas putting this that next step it
is something that is it's rich it's
wholesome its stodgy it's begun G but
it's big flavors it's big and it's
powerful so as a pudding wise it's not
something that people would recognize
that they normally have throughout the
rest of the year so I can get why people
go oh and I'm not sure of this however
it's one of those things that I
absolutely love and look forward to so I
get why some people are because it isn't
it's not chocolate with salted caramel
sauce is it it's similar I think to
fruitcake a lot of people don't really
like those kind of deep dark fruity
desserts today some know for some that's
just a silly old fashioned but that
shouldn't matter if you know if there's
one it is old-fashioned I mean it's it's
such a it's part of the Christmas
heritage isn't it yeah Victoria game
heard invention but that you know if
you're gonna be a old fat man one day of
the year it should really be Christmas
shouldn't it hundred percent yeah I love
mince meat as well i mince pies well
that's it I mean mince pies people like
that some people love mince pies
something that mince pies are amazing
but if you think of a Christmas pudding
it's just like the inside of a mince pie
like it's lush I mean imagine that whole
Christmas pudding wrapped in pastry with
your Christmas pudding do you like the
brandy Buster or the clotted cream I
have to be honest it's quite cream I'm a
big fan of clotted cream
I do custard because thick thick cut I
like can't I like counterbalance as well
of temperature so you get hot steamed
Christmas pudding but really cold thick
vanilla custard it's lush Oh ice cream
you have ice cream then and make it even
more straight cream ice cream I just
love the way clotted cream melts on the
hop on the heart Christmas pudding just
melts into it's amazing stuff clotted
cream okay every time I ate toast cream
I think why don't I eat more of this
I'll even do it more of it as you may
have noticed
well I just love it and there are lots
of different makers of clotted cream
that we can get down in Devon I tell you
they're all absolutely wonderful some
are more golden than others some white
summer kind of almost tan colored but
they're all absolutely glorious but you
can buy it
cata cream I think all over the country
now can't you I think we should do a
clotted cream tasting for the next
podcast yeah yeah series of podcasts
about clotted cream would be a good one
wouldn't it your childhood memories of
Christmas Rosie was it was that you and
your you've got a brother I think yeah
yes so oh that's how you have a brother
in north ory I write down now yeah
Christmas was really exciting again all
about the food as it is for many people
and you rejoin your presents on
Christmas morning yes so because some
people own them on other days which I
think must be perfect torture it has to
be on Christmas morning that you open
your presents isn't it always Christmas
morning yeah we'd always have bacon
sandwich unwrap the presents and then
then we get stuck into the to the food
really but my parents really did go all
out for suspending our belief in father
Christmas don't still believe in him do
you not anymore but I did so I was about
17 because they my mum just went so far
she would one year she actually smashed
a brandy glass on the on the fireplace
and put big city footprints across the
carpet so I was I was just like well I
went into school I was like he
definitely exists because my mum
wouldn't my mom wouldn't stamp so all
over the carpet would she she's very
theatrical your mother isn't she and
you've your little boy he done certainly
believes in center doesn't it - yeah can
we keep that out for what day well this
B's for this Christmas oh well I'm open
a long time as still as a yes son of the
suit fits me last year I stood I got
dress up ass understood at the bottom of
the garden and waved to him from his
bedroom windows he went to bed oh what a
lucky little
sant and then I quickly got changed it
went upstairs and ready midnight I'm
sorry what did he look like
massive he's big bodis wearing jeans and
trainers though I dress up properly as
Santa and it was brilliant yeah so
hopefully yeah I'm planning on doing
that all year round
yeah oh yeah like all year right I do
you know what it was it was one of the
first pairs of trousers up on an agent
just went oh great fit still to come on
BBC good foods podcast with Tom parish
think of the flavors in Christmas
pudding name is brown sauce they say
it's like solid brown sauce so it goes
so well with bacon solid brown sauce
isn't gonna sell it's people that say
[Music]
now we need to talk about the turkey
because people really worry about the
taking and how to cook it so Tom if
you've got any ideas for people I mean
first of all choose the right turkey
yeah fresh or frozen or no fresh one is
the one that they they start they start
breeding moraine well summertime ready
for ready for Christmas but then the the
most amazing thing about too is the who
you get the breast meat right there so
the yield from it there's so much meat
on a turkey crimes and prep and I would
cook the two things separately so always
cook the legs and the breasts separately
because you want the legs to be for that
full of flavor but the problem is that
the crack the crimes itself that breast
meat there's so much meat on it so by
the time you got to the center of it
cooked like you don't want but and then
the legs to be cooked that it's going to
be it's gonna be over in that's where
people start getting all the turkeys dry
so cook them separately braise the
turkey legs in two days before do it
like make them like a of an you
know cook it into like Stuart is
beautiful then you can Freight the meat
from it all those sort of things and
then roast the crown separately on its
own so you don't get to take it out that
but that classic turkey shot with the
legs and everything all together but no
you just still get the beautiful crime
they are still carve that at the table
yeah that
still be the whole process but the legs
you've got the meat and it's beautiful
that way you're gonna get the legs
perfectly cooked and the breasts and do
you brine it now there's a lot of talk
about Brian yes and the breath I would
avoid the legs if I'm going to braise in
the day before that's know for all two
days before but the the breasts
definitely briny flavor its seasons it
up it's amazing but it also helps to I
think some people find the whole Brian
thing a bit of a worry because they
haven't got anywhere big enough to hold
the the turkey and they don't want to
put it in their dustbin or something
like that because you do need a big
thing no but think of all the rubbish it
we buy at Christmas the crappy toys and
the rubbish things in there Matt and
money they spent to get to buy to spend
temp I'm from a garden centre no
brand-new clean plastic box to put it
Turkey I mean come on you already buy
loads of lights that you're not going to
use you know buy a box to keep the
turkey in for a tenner you can also do
if you don't want to do the immersing in
a in a liquid brine you can just really
sort it really well the day before and
that has a similar thought and sugar or
justice also I just used really good sea
salt flakes and just really judiciously
seasoned it all over and then just leave
it uncovered in the fridge and do you do
that thing of covering it with muslin
ever I have done that before I don't
bother anymore yeah it seems to waste an
awful lot of butter yeah I just instead
just rub it with lots of butter and keep
basting it throughout the cooking but
the muslin the muslin technique is a
Leith's
cooking technique I think and it is
amazing forgetting about like really
really good coverage of the golden
coating but I just think if you rub it
really nicely with butter and then keep
basting it and just make sure you're
looking after it in the cooking it's it
should come out really lovely and you
need to be quite flexible with your
timings don't use it so that because you
can't book the time when you're gonna
have it on the table because you don't
actually know till the turkeys that's
why it's between two and four
yeah I actually the turkeys that I've
been getting
lately have a have a one of these ones
on the pill on the pop up and they're
quite good I would check it with the
thermometer but usually you sort of know
you know that it's done I mean the the
legs being braised they don't need
checking with the thermometer but the
the breast you use a digital thermometer
do I do yeah yeah I did I definitely do
I mean it's do again digital thermometer
what 15 20 quid again all the rubbish
things that you buy over Christmas he
thinks about comedy toys and stuff yes
for 15 or 20 quid this is gonna
guarantee that you get an amazing turkey
cook beautifully perfect not overcooked
wonderfully flavored you know for the
sake of that definitely invest in the
digital thermometer that you can then
use the rest for the rest of the year
yeah I think this is the one time here
when he was silly not to have one really
because it's such a help and I remember
my mother fiddling around trying to get
juices out from under the legs and say
calling everyone in saying is the juices
running clear darling and I mean well
they didn't look that clear to me and it
was all a bit of a guessing game whereas
the thermometer tells you once and for
all and then of course you get this
gorgeous gravy with the with the turkey
that's one of the nice things about it
so would you have made your some turkey
stock the day before Tom yes I would I
would have used in the yep definitely
yeah and tribulus and chicken stock so
you kind of get this double poultry
flavor definitely definitely definitely
make it before I'm not a fan of the
giblets flavor livery the neck I use the
neck neck but not the giblets cuz I find
them yeah like you say a little bit
livery um and I don't like that's
flavour so much yeah it can't be a tiny
bit strong but the actually last I did
it and it wasn't strong at all it just
gave a little bit of tiny hint of gaming
us to it but nothing nothing along
people sometimes do make their whole
gravy in advance but you kind us does
she know I'm you can you can definitely
help yourself along though with making
making chicken stock ahead and then you
know infusing it with the with the neck
than the day before
you can do it in stages have stuff
frozen help yourself out in that way
yeah it's always really helpful I
remember when I worked at the magazine
we used to every year we get used to get
letters in from readers saying can I
cook the whole to Christmas meal the day
before and then reheat it on the day and
so every year we had to say no you can't
forget this mad scheme of yours but in a
sense it would be possible to cook I
don't need to be very nice but you could
cook everything the tape before sized it
up and then slice it onto place taking
all the stress out of Christmas and who
wants that you know part of the fun is
the gourmet Christmas with it and Tom
you're not into the idea of a goose then
no I loved goose don't give me one thing
juice is great but you know again it's a
bit like Turkey where you've got you got
have to cook the breasts separately
Turkish goose is beautiful pink but the
press but the legs have to be cooked for
a long time a bit like duck so is it
it's one of those and also the yield
from goose is a lot less in Turkey it's
got a it's a huge hollow cavity in the
middle of the breasts are not nothing
like that not much there and also you
know what you're doing then is your food
forcing food snobbery and middle class
habits onto people that just go it's you
know what otras fancy Turkey I'm all
over the turkey I love it don't I do
think goose is special and do think
goose is fantastic but as an all-rounder
that if you're cooking for 15 people do
I mean turkey wins eight people like
that you get from Turkey as well it goes
on there's a void a box and a cold
turkeys just amazing like and of course
have too much turkey but I think you
could equally so well say you never have
enough goose so that's unsatisfactory in
itself is there be nothing worse and run
out and meet on Christmas Day with there
you have to give people very little
portions with a great deal of gravy
wouldn't you we'd enjoy the gravy now
stuffing stuffing in the bird or out of
the bird I never do it in the verse I
put like lemon onion bay time in garlic
in the bird but I don't stuff the I do
the stuffing separately we had an
anxious question from social media about
this but I don't think people stuff the
bird anymore do they
no I do it separately yeah nothing is
better there's something a bit clammy
about it when it's in the birds as well
as the problem my goodness yeah sort of
steams in there doesn't it rather than
actually bacon yeah it's nice though
it's lovely but I think if you do it
separately
it's about easy then to do it portion it
out rather than trying to scoop it from
inside the neck cavity of the bird and
trying to make it like it's a lot easier
to serve done separately yeah and what
about the other elements of the
Christmas feast we have obviously we
have roast potatoes and we have Tom's
killer recipe on good food website for
roast potatoes which I heartily
recommend where you roll them in a kind
of a bit of potato mash which gives them
the most potato ish coating that you can
ever imagine we've got the sprouts of
course haven't we through gritted tube
tops as well I really sprout tops a
delicious
what's the sprout so the sprout tops are
the leaves on the top of the sprouts the
sprout stalk and they've got an amazing
flavour really kind of really irony like
good green flavor and they're lovely
just blanched and tossed with a bit of
butter and salt and pepper but I'd also
do sprouts they're like the most they're
like spring greens on steroids they're
lush carrots carrots definitely I've got
bread sauce yes okay how do we do our
bread sauce bread sauce can be
polarizing you can spend all morning on
it or you can just you know I have to
say slice the bread into the sachets are
quite good yeah there are some really
good sachets um I can't I won't name
brands but but some of the ready-made
such as if you are pushed are good but I
like to just add normal to them you just
add milk but then you could add an onion
studied with cloves as well and sort of
you could judge it up a little bit with
probably more or less what you would use
there probably bread crumbs in that
session and a few things roughly what
you would use yeah totally and but I
actually really enjoy the the process of
making bread sauce and I'd use a really
nice and really flavorful sourdough
and then I would cover it with milk put
the onion in with the studded with the
Clos fun isn't it the onion started with
clothes yeah I do
only I do a milk and butter infusion
with chopped onion cloves and bits and
bobs and then bring that up to the boil
and then clingfilm it and leave it to
infuse like a cup of tea and then throw
in parsley stalks and leave that for 10
minutes part it off and then I make the
breadcrumbs separately so I slice the
bread and dry it and then so you've got
the hot milk passed off and then you got
dry breadcrumbs and passed off what does
that mean that means yeah put the
clothes in the end so you got this light
so then that way so you it's a fine
powder of bread rather than it being
clumpy so then you bring the milk and
the butter up back to the ball and then
add the fine powder and keep whisking
out and it thickens it and it goes to a
really it's more like a puree and it's
beautiful because you've powdered and
passed and everything's amazing and the
bread that I Rosie was talking about
uses sourdough I like using rye bread
for this because it's got an amazing
kind of dark flavor to it it's beautiful
so is your bread sauce quite dark then
yeah yeah it's kind of like a sandy dark
color and it but it's lush the flavor is
amazing from it it's super super super
delicious but yes so the same sort thing
that that clovie only flavor is really
nice and cream yeah yes butter cream
cheese and butter butter loads you know
yeah cranberry sauce do we do cranberry
sauce yep definitely
my mother-in-law makes a mean cranberry
sauce I have to say with whole
cranberries and orange juice that is
really really really good it's amazing
stuff cranberries because there's such
an alien fruit they they grown bogs in
America don't they actually come and
they bounce them around to check that
they do and they grow summertime and not
in the way I've always found it a little
weird that they're not it's not seasonal
so the cranberries you get normally
frozen from back so I find it all a bit
bizarre but hey it tastes lush with
Turkey yeah in the States they they have
cat it comes in a can cranberry sauce
and the trick is to get it out of the
can still holding the kind of shape of
the can they like it to look like it
come out from the can that's that's the
thing out there anyway
now any tips to avoid Christmas panic
because you know it can break the day
before they microwave it actually if you
were you give me a nine eight dear now
if you did plate it all up an individual
plates you could one by one microwave
them to heat hand them out and everyone
could be eating in real a couldn't they
there would be advantages to that
because you wouldn't have them all at
the same table
bickering if if they were the bickering
type I think what Tom said about serving
things family-style helps and rather
than you know waiting for everything to
get cold while you're dishing up all the
all the bits and bobs yeah it's a bit of
a struggle at the table because the
sprouts are always up there and say it's
my adorable sister in or out there I
don't want to have to say pass the
sprouts and why on well well all I don't
know we're bit clumsy maybe in our
family we knock things over the whole
time and if the gravy goes over it's the
end of the world isn't it so wine
glasses go over I don't know we're not
very tall so we're quite compact so I
think that's why we knock things over
and so if you were knocking over a sort
of person you don't the family's service
is what I eat what I did this year in
fact instead of it being family service
I stuck it all it was actually all in
the kitchen and did it buff I saw so as
you grabbed it home yourself and when it
sat down so it alone kind of in a like
because there were so many of us but it
for me what that work if there's eight
of you like you know suit you've got the
space to do that that's lovely it's
really difficult to try and Plato if
there's a few of you you're trying to
play and put a bit on everyone's plate
by the time you've done it it has gone
cold so it is and so much about it is
structure and organization when when
you're read is a and social media guys
we're coming in about can I do it the
day before actually yeah there is a lot
you can do the day before you can blanch
your vegetables a day before you can
even par cook the roast potatoes the day
before to your the method with exact is
done the day before so there is so much
you can do the day before and it is a
case of right regen inori blanch in the
cabbages or maybe the cauliflower cheese
you can make but not the final bit all
of that sort of stuff you can
get done and then finishing it on the
day that's the thing so it's all about
structure and organization definitely or
just go around to Rosie's I mean yeah if
you're worried about if you are worried
about the stress of it definitely prep
for heads and do that you know do the
bread sauce ahead as well and do and
make your stocks ready for the gravy to
help with that as well
yeah it's this kind of day when I wish I
had a walk-in fridge that's kind of
dream where you walk in so shelves
floor-to-ceiling shelves and you've been
you've got space for everything but the
fridge does get a bit critical on this
time with all those the great thing is
because it's so cold at this time of
year we can keep stuff out sighs so I've
even kept the turkey outside when it's
really cold you know make loads of space
that way because it is huge isn't it YUM
so be amusing imagination you know we've
got something to eat which I'm really
looking forward to this is a really nice
recipe from the good food website as a
Tom recipe for something rather special
which is a Christmas pudding cheesecake
and not only does it sound delicious and
actually it's a very clever recipe but
it's actually no cook I noticed so you
don't actually have to cook anything is
it's much more than an assembly job
special ever I didn't want to say that
Tom but that beauty on earth is the
beautiful golden cheesecake with
satsumas would those be satsumas on top
yeah yeah a ginger nut crust and we're
getting lavish slices cut for a spine
well other than and so that's got one
carrot that's got the pudding running
through the cream cheese yeah and it's a
nice way of using up Christmas pudding
you know for like yeah I mean and for
those people that do not like Christmas
pudding it's a nice way of getting them
to eat it right without it feeling like
they're I would you tell them that its
flavored with something else other than
Christmas pudding no I tell him he's got
Christmas pudding in it that's the way
that it is you know it's that's fairly
standard you know but go on give it a go
you know it's it's a nice way of getting
those sort of flavors interview so if
you're a Christmas put in here you might
like it
and if you love Christmas pudding in any
way you'll get
so now you know a little way you could
serve it on Christmas Day instead of the
pudding which part if you don't like it
can be feel a bit heavy but also great
as their Boxing Day tree when you've got
that it's rather annoying to have a bit
of Christmas pudding left because it's a
very precious thing a Christmas tree
it's got lot is full of expensive
gorgeous and green took something a long
time to make and then you get a bit left
over gently the other good thing about
Christmas pudding right and this is if
you've never have it on Boxing Day it's
really good just warmed up and served
with a full English breakfast
mmm it's amazing so think of the flavors
in Christmas put in famous brown sauce
oh yes I it's like solid brown sauce so
it goes so well with bacon solid brown
sauce isn't gonna sell it's people that
don't know what it is I'd try it just a
routine if they offers cut it in little
circle and pass it off as black pudding
to the the Christmas pudding haters I
imagine people know the same people that
don't like because it's running probably
though right black pudding either
because it is the same sort flavor
except that's now I've got pig's blood
in it so like we've gone beyond its like
I mean let's go one step at a time
cheesecake the Mexi black pudding
cheesecake I'm enjoying this so much
it's quite busy
we must finish because we've run out of
time but just finally we hadn't even
mentioned mince pies and I know that
people adore mince pies are you among
them Rosie I am I love them and I but I
do do something I do mess with them a
little bit
I'd like to make them with a frangipane
top mmm
so I do the short crust on the bottom
and then really delicious mincemeat I
usually buy it in and then pimp it up a
little bit with a bit of sherry some
flaked almonds a little bit maraschino
cherry pie mincemeat it's generally the
same stuff that you would make it with
yourself if it's a responsible
manufacturer they yeah and you can you
can pimp it up a little bit and then a
French pan topping with ground almonds
butter eggs sugar all blitz together
lovely and then sprinkle on the the
sliced the sliced flaked almonds on top
and they puff up and they look beautiful
and actually you can get this you can
get this um edible gold glitter
and I just do a little dusting of that
on top as well and it they are when they
come out of there yeah and they're
really beautiful because the frangipane
sort of meets the pastry and it honestly
delicious and I put a little bit of arm
and you know dis Serrano or almond
liqueur into the frangipane as well dude
into the mincemeat sorry Judah mince
pies that the restaurant we do do little
mince pies at the restaurant however the
best mince pies Beth makes them every
year it's a little Christmas thing that
she does that she makes amazing mince
pies make it using puff pastry and roll
to mount and filter and little man gets
involved and it like makes a massive
mess and then it's a lovely thing that
we take rounds of friends and families
and truck drop the mince pies off so
yeah mince pies are big hit in our
family so hugely I can hear the Bells
jingling as I listened to that anecdote
Tom I'd like to thank you both enormous
me and everyone listening we all wish
you an enormous e happy Christmas
[Music]
thank you for listening to today's show
you'll find the recipe and thousands
more on BBC good food comm if you have a
minute we'd love to hear from you on
Twitter Facebook or Instagram at BBC
good food
[Music]